---
title: A Practical Summary of the Lux AI season 3 #1 Team’s Approach
tags: RL Kaggle
article_header:
  type: cover
pseudocode: true
---

## Intro

* Why I started to learn this.

## Quick introduction of Lux Ai Season3

* Game Explanation
    * observation
    * action
    * goal

## #1 Team's Approach

### Observations

### Model Architecture

At first glance, their model was such a disaster to understand. However, calculating data flow shape through out the model always leads me to understanding of model. I hope the other people like this sort of method because this is a really powerful method to handle complex models. Now, I'm going to explain how #1 team's model works in this manner showing data shape flow.

First off, their model is separated into four parts, data embedding, general spatial processing, prediction, and action selection. So, let's see how they've made the architecture.
```
Embedding -> ResNet -> ConvLSTM -> Transformer -> base_out $|\cdot| = (4, 64, 24, 24)$
```

#### Embedding

**Data Embedding** is a crucial part when there are a number of data types such as spatial data(grid information), binary data(fog or asteroids mask), and discrete data(score and units' energy). Observation space of Lux ai's gym is huge so that they've picked more than 1000 features from the gym. But an important point of the choosing methology is that they combined them into 3 dimensional space. This has a significant impact because they can be processed with convolution layers. They also merged these information by 

They have created a base_out(4, 64, 24, 24)


### Learning Algorithm

### Future goal

## Questions

### How can an agent choose action in the IMPALA setup?

### How can a model combine a various types of inputs?
