---
title: Decoding RECAP: A Theoretical Look at π∗0.6's Reinforcement Learning Approach
tags: RL
article_header:
  type: cover
---


In this post, I want to deepen the understanding related to RECAP(RL with Experience and Corrections via Advantage-conditioned Policies) which adopted the idea of advantage in RL like actor-critic method in RL. In RECAP algorithm, advantage of actions are calculated through value network and feed this information into VLM backbone as improvement indicator.

The why they have applied like this.

The problem: Flow matching VLAs can't use standard RL (PPO, SAC) because they don't provide action log-probabilities.

The solution: Label actions as 'positive' or 'negative' based on outcomes, train the model to generate both, then always condition on 'positive' at deployment.

This is basically a imitation learning with advantage from value function. And even value function is not trained with bellman equation.

## What's pi 0.6?

* Gemma 3 4B VLM backbone for vision-language understanding
* 860M parameter action expert for generating conditinuous robot actions
* Multi-modal outputs: sub-task text, discretized actions (FAST tokens), and continuous action chunks at 50Hz

Convert RL into conditional supervised learning.

RECAP enables VLA models to improve beyond demonstration quality by learning to distinguish good actions from bad ones, then always requesting 'good' at inference time.

Robot requires
* on-robot experience to know the real goal.
* Doesn't require log-probabilities

## Real application of RECAP

Collect Data -> Compute Advantages -> Label Actions -> Train -> Deploy ->
